Let's do some experimental stuff,
experimental browser stuff that's
actually probably even more dangerous.
So everything that I just taught you,
100% of it, applicable today, go forth to
your companies and use everything
that I just taught you about vitest.
This is all tried and true science so far,
I'm gonna show you what's
what's coming next.
And I almost taught this to you as
the way to go, no matter what, but
it's just not stable enough for
me to recommend yet, so I'm not going to.
But it's soon, the answer is, soon this
will be stable enough for you to do, so
I want you to know about it.
So, come into your project and
we're gonna do nmp
install-D at vitest/browser at 2.1.3 we're
gonna need playwright,
which is a Microsoft thing.
If you've heard of Puppeteer, this is kind
of the spiritual successor to Puppeteer,
it's literally the same person, Pavel.
He created Puppeteer at Google, and then
Microsoft stole them, and then he created
playwright at Microsoft, so he was just
kinda continuing on the line of work.
The test-browser-react, and
you can see how experimental this is,
it's 0.0, 0.1,
experimental and not done yet.
So I'll also say like,
this one is, in particular,
liable to be broken by the time that you
run this because they'll probably have
changed this several times, so
you might need to debug this a little bit.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
we have that, we now have to go and
create a vitest.config file.
So we're gonna create a new file,
we're gonna call it vitest.config.js,
we're gonna import, define workspace,
define workspace from vitest.config.js.
We're kinda hacking around
a little bit there,
you can leave the .js,
it doesn't have to be there either way.
Workspaces is actually for
monorepos, so if you have like,
seven packages in one repo, you can
define different vitest workspaces for
each one of them,
that's the point of define workspace.
But we're gonna use it to define
a happy-dom environment for
our old tests and a playwright environment
for our new tests cuz I don't want to
rewrite our old tests if
there's still good, right?
And I just want to write new
test in our browser way,
so we're gonna export default define
workspace and it's gonna be an array.
And you're basically,
two different config files here,
so the first one we're gonna make sure you
have extends ./vitet.config.js, and test.
So basically, this is saying bring
everything in from this file here,
my vite file, and I'm going to just
overwrite the test part of it, and
we're gonna say include,
>> Brian Holt: We
only wanna test files that have,
>> Brian Holt: .node.test.js or
jsx, let's see the one of those, okay?
These ones are all going to be
run in the happy-dom environment.
So we're gonna say name,
>> Brian Holt: Call them happy-dom,
and environment,
we're going to set to be happy-dom.
>> Brian Holt: So basically, all of our
existing tests we wanna run in happy-dom,
and we're gonna have to go rename all
of them to have .node in the title.
That's why I said later that the name
of this one's gonna get even more
ridiculous cuz it's gonna have to
be contact.lazy.node.test .jsx.
>> Brian Holt: It's both absurd, but I
also, I can't really do anything about it,
It does have to kinda be that way.
So that's fine, and
then we're gonna have a new one,
we're gonna write new tests with, and
that is going to be extends I
guess we don't need the quotes,
extends, same thing,
vite config.js, test, okay?
And this one has a little
bit more involved setup,
it's gonna have some setup files.
This is just things that get run
before your test get run and
we're gonna put vitest browser react.
we're gonna make sure that that
gets run before our test get run,
we're going to include anything that
we include browser in the test.
So, the other thing
instead of doing .node or
.browser we could have just put
them in separate directories
that would have been fine as well,
that's totally up to you.
I think this just made me laugh,
and so I kept doing it,
chaos driven development, if you will,
name we're gonna call this browser.
The reason why we're putting the name here
is so that when we're looking at our test,
it'll it'll actually
give you a little label,
it says this was run in the browser.
This was run in happy-dom, and
it makes it easy to tell at a glance,
browser, and
we're gonna say provider, provider.
And your two choices are playwright,
which I strongly suggest you go with,
I think you can also use web driver,
which is Selenium, same thing.
Enabled true and name, here you can put
what browser you would like to test in.
I'm gonna test in Firefox but
feel free to put
Chromium can go there or
WebKit if you're on Mac OS.
But if you want to test in Chrome,
you put Chromium here,
I think you can put Edge there, maybe?
Don't quote me on that one, anyway,
Firefox, that's what I'm putting there,
all right?
So let's go rename these so
that they have node .node contact.node,
nope, not there.
It sucks, but unfortunately,
the order is important, node, so
contact.lazy.node.test.jsx.
>> Brian Holt: And pizza of the day,
I'm gonna put this.
>> Brian Holt: And
those are all of our node tests.
if I remember correctly, yeah, so
cart one this actually,
that can be run in the browser because
playwright already does snapshot testing.
So, this actually will run
in either one of them,
and so we might as well just throw
this into our browser environment.
So rather than cart.node,
we're gonna do cart.browser,
these other ones actually depend on
the fact that we're in happy-dom,
and they could be rewritten
to work with the browser.
I just don't want to make you do that
because I don't think that's a useful
exercise for you right now.
But we are gonna create another pizza
test, so we're gonna create pizza.browser.
>> Brian Holt: And we're gonna do that.
>> Brian Holt: So, all right,
let's go write our test, so
in pizza.browser.test.jsx,
import render from,
and we're gonna get it
from vitest-browser-react,
so this library aims to
mimic testing library.
So we actually don't need testing library
at all in the browser-based environment,
because vitest-browser-react does
all of the things that testing
library would do for us,
it aims to be mostly API compliant.
So, if you have questions about it,
just go look at the testing library docs,
it's usually the same thing, okay?
Expect and test from vitest,
import Pizza from src/Pizza,
capital P, Pizza.
Okay, we're gonna test alt
text renders on image, and so
we're gonna test the same thing, but we're
gonna do in a browser-based environment,
the test is gonna end up
looking pretty similar.
Const name = My favorite pizza,
const src = our nice looking
picture there pick some photo/200 and
const screen = render.
Pizza name = name,
src = src,
>> Brian Holt: And
it's not src, it's image, sorry.
Image = source and
description = cool browser stuff.
Close your tag there, and we're gonna
say const image = await
screen.get by role.
>> Brian Holt: And the matches end up
looking a little bit different we have to
use this expect element thing.
Or say const or await, expect
element image to be in the document.
>> Brian Holt: So we expect it to
render an image at all, right?
Let's just make two of these here,
I'm gonna say to have attribute
>> Brian Holt: Src, src and to have
attribute alt name.
So, if you're looking at this, its like,
this looks pretty similar, right?
And not totally the same, just to put
them side by side, just for a second.
>> Brian Holt: See the screen here,
screen here, and
this one you're just able to just
do these synchronous checks, right?
Cuz it's just really reading text out of
a document, this is the whole browser,
this is actually going into Firefox,
grabbing this out of the downloads.
We have to await stuff, cuz it is,
it's truly asynchronous,
it's really in a browser.
I think you're gonna have to do something
like NPX playwright install if you've
never run playwright before, let's just,
I'm gonna run it and see what happens.
I've done this before, so it might, yeah,
I think it's just gonna exit for me,
for the rest of you,
it's probably gonna say like,
do you wanna install 300 megs of stuff,
is that working for people, okay, cool.
That was from memory, so
I just was worried I was
giving you the wrong command.
What it's doing, it's gonna actually
install mini versions of Firefox,
mini versions of Chromium and
a mini version of WebKit.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so now you should
be able to run npm run test and
it should pop up a browser or
it should fail miserably.
>> Brian Holt: Fail to load config.
>> Speaker 2: All right, I have one
question that we maybe skipped a step
a little bit earlier, but there was a step
to remove things from the v.config.js.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah,
you're absolutely right.
>> Speaker 2: I tried
messing around with that, but
I'm still getting that error,
personally right now, so I don't.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, no, you're right, you
do have to delete this stuff out of your
configure because we put
it in our vitest stuff.
So, I had called this
vitest.config.workspace,
which technically is
a valid thing to call it,
but it's only for one project I
was explaining to you earlier.
We're technically abusing a tool to
make define it for multiple projects, so
we can take care of a browser-based
environment and a node-based environment.
And in the docs, they recognize like,
we already have that for workspaces, so
we're doing it that way.
But the big thing here is make
sure it's vitest.workspace.js,
and that'll fix our problem here.
>> Brian Holt: It's kinda silly to me
that that's not the same thing, but
I don't know, I'm not the one
writing the open source software.
All right, so you do all this,
and notice that I'm popped up,
I have another window here from Nightly,
so
this is actually downloading
Firefox Nightly to run this, right?
That's why it's called Nightly.
I have an error here in my test,
but let's go figure out what's
going on with that,
failed to resolve report src/pizza.
So I'm in pizza.browser.test.jsx,
pizza from src/pizza,
it seems like that should be correct,
so yes, that dot slash,
that was no source there.
And now we have a test running in our
browser, which is kind of cool, right?
>> Brian Holt: So
this should be able to refresh and
notice this should feel familiar,
right, the same UI, right?
But there's actually something
kind of cool about this,
if you come into your browser tests,
I will say that this breaks constantly and
it's like, it will freeze, and so
it's just a good refresh usually does it.
Yeah, so stuff like this, so
you can actually see the component
being rendered on the page,
you're gonna include the CSS and
all stuff and make it look really nice.
We're not doing that stuff, and I'm not
super worried about it at the moment,
that's too bad that the image
is not working, but
the image should work there as well.
Pizza.jsx, did I misspell it?
>> Brian Holt: Photos, picsum.photos.
>> Brian Holt: And then now if we go
back to our UI here, or this one,
yeah, and then you can see that it
actually renders out the image as well.
Kinda ends up being like a little bit of
a storybook, kinda thing where you can
kinda like show off all of your components
in an individual kind of way using tests,
which is kinda cool as well.